morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter
of an hour’s tête-à-tête with Mrs. Bennet before breakfast,
a conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and
leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes, that a mistress
for it might be found at Longbourn, produced from her,
amid very complaisant smiles and general encouragement,
a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on. – “As
to her {{younger}} daughters she could not take upon her to
say – she could not positively answer – but she did not
{{know}} of any prepossession; – her {{eldest}} daughter, she must
just mention – she felt it incumbent on her to hint, was
likely to be very soon engaged.”

Mr. Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth – and
it was soon done – done while Mrs. Bennet was
stirring the fire. Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth
and beauty, succeeded her of course.

Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she
might soon have two daughters married; and the man
whom she could not bear to speak of the day before, was
now high in her good graces.

Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not
forgotten; every sister except Mary agreed to go with
her; and Mr. Collins was to attend them, at the request
of Mr. Bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of him,
and have his library to himself; for thither Mr. Collins
had followed him after breakfast, and there he would
continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios
in the collection, but really talking to Mr. Bennet, with
little cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford.
Such doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly. In his
library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity;
and though prepared, as he told Elizabeth, to meet with
folly and conceit in every other room in the house, he was
used to be free from them there; his civility, therefore,
was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his
daughters in their walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact
much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely
well pleased to close his large book, and go.
