
In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on
that of his cousins, their time passed till they entered
Meryton. The attention of the younger ones was then
no longer to be gained by {{him}}. Their eyes were immediately
wandering up in the street in quest of the officers,
and nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or
a really new muslin in a shop window, could recal them.

But the attention of every lady was soon caught by
a young man, whom they had never seen before, of most
gentlemanlike appearance, walking with an officer on the
other side of the way. The officer was the very Mr. Denny,
concerning whose return from London Lydia came to
inquire, and he bowed as they passed. All were struck
with the stranger’s air, all wondered who he could be, and
Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find out, led
the way across the street, under pretence of wanting
something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just
gained the pavement when the two gentlemen turning
back had reached the same spot. Mr. Denny addressed
them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his
friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day
before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted
a commission in their corps. This was exactly as it should
be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make
him completely charming. His appearance was greatly
in his favour; he had all the best part of beauty, a fine
countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy
readiness of conversation – a readiness at the same time
perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party
were still standing and talking together very agreeably,
when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy
and Bingley were seen riding down the street. On distinguishing
the ladies of the group, the two gentlemen
came directly towards them, and began the usual civilities.
Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the
principal object. He was then, he said, on his way to
Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her. Mr. Darcy
