interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at
last however. The gentlemen did approach; and when
Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that
she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him
since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
The officers of the ———shire were in general a very creditable,
gentlemanlike set, and the best of them were of the
present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond them
all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as {{they}} were
superior to the broad-faced stuffy uncle Philips, breathing
port wine, who followed them into the room.

Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost
every female eye was turned, and Elizabeth was the
happy woman by whom he finally seated himself; and
the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night,
and on the probability of a rainy season, made her feel
that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might
be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker.

With such rivals for the notice of the fair, as Mr. Wickham
and the officers, Mr. Collins seemed likely to sink
into insignificance; to the young ladies he certainly was
nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in
Mrs. Philips, and was, by her watchfulness, most abundantly
supplied with coffee and muffin.

When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity
of obliging her in return, by sitting down to whist.

“I know little of the game, at present,” said he, “but
I shall be glad to improve myself, for in my situation of
life———” Mrs. Philips was very thankful for his compliance,
but could not wait for his reason.

Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready
delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth
and Lydia. At first there seemed danger of Lydia’s
engrossing him entirely, for she was a most determined
talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery
tickets, she soon grew too much interested in the game,
too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes, to
