depended less on any single event, or any particular
person, for though they each, like Elizabeth, meant to
dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, he was by no
means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball
was at any rate, a ball. And even Mary could assure her
family that she had no disinclination for it.

“While I can have my mornings to myself,” said she,
“it is enough. – I think it no sacrifice to join occasionally
in evening engagements. Society has claims on us all;
and I profess myself one of those who consider intervals
of recreation and amusement as desirable for every body.”

Elizabeth’s spirits were so high on the occasion, that
though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins,
she could not help asking him whether he intended to
accept Mr. Bingley’s invitation, and if he did, whether
he would think it proper to join in the evening’s amusement;
and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained
no scruple whatever on that head, and was very
far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop,
or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.

“I am by no means of opinion, I assure you,” said he,
“that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character,
to respectable people, can have any evil tendency;
and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself that
I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair
cousins in the course of the evening, and I take this opportunity
of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first
dances especially, – a preference which I trust my cousin
Jane will attribute to the right cause, and not to any
disrespect for her.”

Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in. She had
fully proposed being engaged by Wickham for those
very dances: – and to have Mr. Collins instead! her liveliness
had been never worse timed. There was no help for
it however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness and her own was
per force delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins’s proposal
accepted with as good a grace as she could. She was not
the better pleased with his gallantry, from the idea it
