in this assembly! – I am most thankful that the discovery
is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which
I am now going to do, and trust he will excuse my not
having done it before. My total ignorance of the connection
must plead my apology.”

“You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr.
Darcy?”

“Indeed I am. I shall intreat his pardon for not
having done it earlier. I believe him to be Lady Catherine’s
{{nephew}}. It will be in my power to assure him that her
ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.”

Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a
scheme; assuring him that Mr. Darcy would consider his
addressing him without introduction as an impertinent
freedom, rather than a compliment to his aunt; that it
was not in the least necessary there should be any notice
on either side, and that if it were, it must belong to
Mr. Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the
acquaintance. – Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined
air of following his own inclination, and when she
ceased speaking, replied thus,

“My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion
in the world of your excellent judgment in all matters
within the scope of your understanding, but permit me
to say that there must be a wide difference between the
established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those
which regulate the clergy; for give me leave to observe
that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of
dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom – provided
that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time
maintained. You must therefore allow me to follow the
dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which leads
me to perform what I look on as a point of duty. Pardon
me for neglecting to profit by your advice, which on every
other subject shall be my constant guide, though in the
case before us I consider myself more fitted by education
and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young
lady like yourself.” And with a low bow he left her to
