a gentlewoman for {{my}} sake; and for your {{own}}, let her
be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high,
but able to make a small income go a good way. This is
my advice. Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring
her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.’ Allow me, by the
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon
the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh
as among the least of the advantages in my power to
offer. You will find her manners beyond any thing I can
describe; and your wit and vivacity I think must be
acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the
silence and respect which her rank will inevitably excite.
Thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony;
it remains to be told why my views were directed
to Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where
I assure you there are many amiable young women.
But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate
after the death of your honoured father, (who, however,
may live many years longer,) I could not satisfy myself
without resolving to chuse a wife from among his daughters,
that the loss to them might be as little as possible, when
the melancholy event takes place – which, however, as
I have already said, may not be for several years. This
has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself
it will not sink me in your esteem. And now nothing
remains for me but to assure you in the most animated
language of the violence of my affection. To fortune I am
perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that
nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could
not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the 4 per cents. which will not be yours till after your
mother’s decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and
you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach
shall ever pass my lips when we are married.”

It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.

“You are too hasty, Sir,” she cried. “You forget that
I have made no answer. Let me do it without farther
