
“Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me. – No one who
has ever seen you together, can doubt his affection. Miss
Bingley I am sure cannot. She is not such a simpleton.
Could she have seen half as much love in Mr. Darcy for
herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes. But
the case is this. We are not rich enough, or grand enough
for them; and she is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy
for her brother, from the notion that when there has been
{{one}} intermarriage, she may have less trouble in achieving
a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and
I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out
of the way. But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously
imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you her brother
greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest degree
less sensible of {{your}} merit than when he took leave of you
on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to persuade
him that instead of being in love with you, he is very
much in love with her friend.”

“If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane,
“your representation of all this, might make me quite
easy. But I know the foundation is unjust. Caroline is
incapable of wilfully deceiving any one; and all that
I can hope in this case is, that she is deceived herself.”

“That is right. – You could not have started a more
happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine.
Believe her to be deceived by all means. You have now
done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.”

“But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing
the best, in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are
all wishing him to marry elsewhere?”

“You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth, “and
if upon mature deliberation, you find that the misery of
disobliging his two sisters is more than equivalent to the
happiness of being his wife, I advise you by all means
to refuse him.”

“How can you talk so?” – said Jane faintly smiling, – “You
must know that though I should be exceedingly
grieved at their disapprobation, I could not hesitate.”
