preservative from want. This preservative she had now
obtained; and at the age of twenty-seven, without having
ever been handsome, she felt all the good luck of it. The
least agreeable circumstance in the business, was the surprise
it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship
she valued beyond that of any other person. Elizabeth
would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though
her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be
hurt by such disapprobation. She resolved to give her
the information herself, and therefore charged Mr. Collins
when he returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no
hint of what had passed before any of the family. A promise
of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it
could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity
excited by his long absence, burst forth in such very
direct questions on his return, as required some ingenuity
to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great
self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.

As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow
to see any of the family, the ceremony of leave-taking
was performed when the ladies moved for the night; and
Mrs. Bennet with great politeness and cordiality said how
happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again, whenever
his other engagements might allow him to visit them.

“My dear Madam,” he replied, “this invitation is
particularly gratifying, because it is what I have been
hoping to receive; and you may be very certain that I
shall avail myself of it as soon as possible.”

They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could
by no means wish for so speedy a return, immediately said,

“But is there not danger of Lady Catherine’s disapprobation
here, my good sir? – You had better neglect your
relations, than run the risk of offending your patroness.”

“My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly
obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may
depend upon my not taking so material a step without her
ladyship’s concurrence.”

“You cannot be too much on your guard. Risk
