
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this
subject. Day after day passed away without bringing
any other tidings of him than the report which shortly
prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to Netherfield
the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.
Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most
scandalous falsehood.

Even Elizabeth began to fear – not that Bingley was
indifferent – but that his sisters would be successful in
keeping him away. Unwilling as she was to admit an
idea so destructive of Jane’s happiness, and so dishonourable
to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent
its frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two
unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend, assisted
by the attractions of Miss Darcy and the amusements
of London, might be too much, she feared, for the strength
of his attachment.

As for Jane, {{her}} anxiety under this suspence was, of
course, more painful than Elizabeth’s; but whatever she
felt she was desirous of concealing, and between herself
and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject was never alluded to.
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother, an hour
seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express
her impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to
confess that if he did not come back, she should think
herself very ill used. It needed all Jane’s steady mildness
to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.

Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday
fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite
so gracious as it had been on his first introduction. He
was too happy, however, to need much attention; and
luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved
them from a great deal of his company. The chief of
every day was spent by him at Lucas Lodge, and he
sometimes returned to Longbourn only in time to make
an apology for his absence before the family went to bed.

Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The
very mention of any thing concerning the match threw
