clothes is superior to the rest, there is no occasion for
any thing more. Lady Catherine will not think the worse
of you for being simply dressed. She likes to have the
distinction of rank preserved.”

While they were dressing, he came two or three times
to their different doors, to recommend their being quick,
as Lady Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting
for her dinner. – Such formidable accounts of her Ladyship,
and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas,
who had been little used to company, and she looked
forward to her introduction at Rosings, with as much
apprehension, as her father had done to his presentation
at St. James’s.

As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of
about half a mile across the park. – Every park has its
beauty and its prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to
be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures
as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but
slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in
front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing
altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis De Bourgh.

When they ascended the steps to the hall, Maria’s
alarm was every moment increasing, and even Sir William
did not look perfectly calm. – Elizabeth’s courage did not
fail her. She had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that
spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous
virtue, and the mere stateliness of money and rank,
she thought she could witness without trepidation.

From the entrance hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed
out, with a rapturous air, the fine proportion and finished
ornaments, they followed the servants through an anti-chamber,
to the room where Lady Catherine, her daughter,
and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting. – Her Ladyship, with
great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs.
Collins had settled it with her husband that the office of
introduction should be her’s, it was performed in a proper
manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which
he would have thought necessary.
