it necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected
that there might be other family livings to be disposed of,
she could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours.
Now and then, they were honoured with a call from her
Ladyship, and nothing escaped her observation that was
passing in the room during these visits. She examined
into their employments, looked at their work, and advised
them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement
of the furniture, or detected the housemaid in
negligence; and if she accepted any refreshment, seemed
to do it only for the sake of finding out that Mrs. Collins’s
joints of meat were too large for her family.

Elizabeth soon perceived that though this great lady
was not in the commission of the peace for the county,
she was a most active magistrate in her own parish, the
minutest concerns of which were carried to her by Mr.
Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed
to be quarrelsome, discontented or too poor, she sallied
forth into the village to settle their differences, silence
their complaints, and scold them into harmony and plenty.

The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated
about twice a week; and, allowing for the loss of Sir
William, and there being only one card table in the
evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart
of the first. Their other engagements were few; as the
style of living of the neighbourhood in general, was
beyond the Collinses’ reach. This however was no evil
to Elizabeth, and upon the whole she spent her time
comfortably enough; there were half hours of pleasant
conversation with Charlotte, and the weather was so fine
for the time of year, that she had often great enjoyment
out of doors. Her favourite walk, and where she frequently
went while the others were calling on Lady
Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that
side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path,
which no one seemed to value but herself, and where she
felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine’s curiosity.

In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon
