the propriety of his friend’s inclination, or why, upon his
own judgment alone, he was to determine and direct in
what manner that friend was to be happy.” “But,” she
continued, recollecting herself, “as we know none of the
particulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to
be supposed that there was much affection in the case.”

“That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam,
“but it is lessening the honour of my cousin’s triumph
very sadly.”

This was spoken jestingly, but it appeared to her so
just a picture of Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust
herself with an answer; and, therefore, abruptly changing
the conversation, talked on indifferent matters till they
reached the parsonage. There, shut into her own room,
as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without
interruption of all that she had heard. It was not to be
supposed that any other people could be meant than those
with whom she was connected. There could not exist in
the world {{two}} men, over whom Mr. Darcy could have such
boundless influence. That he had been concerned in the
measures taken to separate Mr. Bingley and Jane, she had
never doubted; but she had always attributed to Miss
Bingley the principal design and arrangement of them.
If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, {{he}} was
the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause of all
that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He
had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most
affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one
could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.

“There were some very strong objections against the
lady,” were Colonel Fitzwilliam’s words, and these strong
objections probably were, her having one uncle who was
a country attorney, and another who was in business in
London.

“To Jane herself,” she exclaimed, “there could be no
possibility of objection. All loveliness and goodness as
she is! Her understanding excellent, her mind improved,
and her manners captivating. Neither could any thing
