and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by
design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance
between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we
were most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance
and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana,
whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of
his kindness to her as a child, that she was persuaded to
believe herself in love, and to consent to an elopement.
She was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse; and
after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that
I owed the knowledge of it to herself. I joined them
unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement,
and then Georgiana, unable to support the idea of grieving
and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to
as a father, acknowledged the whole to me. You may
imagine what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my
sister’s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure,
but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately,
and Mrs. Younge was of course removed from her
charge. Mr. Wickham’s chief object was unquestionably
my sister’s fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds;
but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging
himself on me, was a strong inducement. His revenge
would have been complete indeed. This, madam, is a
faithful narrative of every event in which we have been
concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject
it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty
towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under
what form of falsehood he has imposed on you; but his
success is not perhaps to be wondered at. Ignorant as you
previously were of every thing concerning either, detection
could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly
not in your inclination. You may possibly wonder why
all this was not told you last night. But I was not then
master enough of myself to know what could or ought
to be revealed. For the truth of every thing here related,
I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel
Fitzwilliam, who from our near relationship and constant
