were still fresh in her memory. She was {{now}} struck with
the impropriety of such communications to a stranger,
and wondered it had escaped her before. She saw the
indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done,
and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
She remembered that he had boasted of having no fear
of seeing Mr. Darcy – that Mr. Darcy might leave the
country, but that {{he}} should stand his ground; yet he
had avoided the Netherfield ball the very next week.
She remembered also, that till the Netherfield family had
quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but
herself; but that after their removal, it had been every
where discussed; that he had then no reserves, no scruples
in sinking Mr. Darcy’s character, though he had assured
her that respect for the father, would always prevent his
exposing the son.

How differently did every thing now appear in which
he was concerned! His attentions to Miss King were
now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary;
and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer
the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp
at any thing. His behaviour to herself could now have
had no tolerable motive; he had either been deceived
with regard to her fortune, or had been gratifying his
vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed
she had most incautiously shewn. Every lingering struggle
in his favour grew fainter and fainter; and in farther
justification of Mr. Darcy, she could not but allow that
Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago
asserted his blamelessness in the affair; that proud and
repulsive as were his manners, she had never, in the whole
course of their acquaintance, an acquaintance which had
latterly brought them much together, and given her a sort
of intimacy with his ways, seen any thing that betrayed
him to be unprincipled or unjust – any thing that spoke
him of irreligious or immoral habits. That among his
own connections he was esteemed and valued – that even
Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother, and that
