she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his
sister as to prove him capable of {{some}} amiable feeling.
That had his actions been what Wickham represented
them, so gross a violation of every thing right could hardly
have been concealed from the world; and that friendship
between a person capable of it, and such an amiable man
as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.

She grew absolutely ashamed of herself. – Of neither
Darcy nor Wickham could she think, without feeling that
she had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.

“How despicably have I acted!” she cried. – “I, who
have prided myself on my discernment! – I, who have
valued myself on my abilities! who have often disdained
the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my vanity,
in useless or blameable distrust. – How humiliating is this
discovery! – Yet, how just a humiliation! – Had I been
in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind.
But vanity, not love, has been my folly. – Pleased with
the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the
other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have
courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason
away, where either were concerned. Till this moment,
I never knew myself.”

From herself to Jane – from Jane to Bingley, her
thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection
that Mr. Darcy’s explanation {{there}}, had appeared
very insufficient; and she read it again. Widely different
was the effect of a second perusal. – How could she deny
that credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she
had been obliged to give in the other? – He declared
himself to have been totally unsuspicious of her sister’s
attachment; – and she could not help remembering what
Charlotte’s opinion had always been. – Neither could she
deny the justice of his description of Jane. – She felt that
Jane’s feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and
that there was a constant complacency in her air and
manner, not often united with great sensibility.

When she came to that part of the letter in which
