consoled her for the melancholy conviction of her husband’s
never intending to go there himself.

But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed;
and their raptures continued with little intermission to the
very day of Lydia’s leaving home.

Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last
time. Having been frequently in company with him since
her return, agitation was pretty well over; the agitations
of former partiality entirely so. She had even learnt to
detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted
her, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary.
In his present behaviour to herself, moreover, she had
a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination he soon
testified of renewing those attentions which had marked
the early part of their acquaintance, could only serve,
after what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost
all concern for him in finding herself thus selected as the
object of such idle and frivolous gallantry; and while she
steadily repressed it, could not but feel the reproof contained
in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity
would be gratified and her preference secured at any time
by their renewal.

On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining in
Meryton, he dined with others of the officers at Longbourn;
and so little was Elizabeth disposed to part from him
in good humour, that on his making some enquiry as to
the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford,
she mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr. Darcy’s
having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked
him if he were acquainted with the former.

He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with
a moment’s recollection and a returning smile, replied,
that he had formerly seen him often; and after observing
that he was a very gentlemanlike man, asked her how she
had liked him. Her answer was warmly in his favour.
With an air of indifference he soon afterwards added,
“How long did you say that he was at Rosings?”
