pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow! – How
much of good or evil must be done by him! Every idea
that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was
favourable to his character, and as she stood before the
canvas, on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes
upon herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper
sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before;
she remembered its warmth, and softened its impropriety
of expression.

When all of the house that was open to general inspection
had been seen, they returned down stairs, and taking
leave of the housekeeper, were consigned over to the
gardener, who met them at the hall door.

As they walked across the lawn towards the river,
Elizabeth turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt
stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as
to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly
came forward from the road, which led behind it to the
stables.

They were within twenty yards of each other, and so
abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid
his sight. Their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of
each were overspread with the deepest blush. He absolutely
started, and for a moment seemed immoveable from
surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards
the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect
composure, at least of perfect civility.

She had instinctively turned away; but, stopping on
his approach, received his compliments with an embarrassment
impossible to be overcome. Had his first
appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had
just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other
two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener’s expression
of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately
have told it. They stood a little aloof while he was talking
to their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely
dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer
she returned to his civil enquiries after her family. Amazed
