
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of
the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler
fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they
were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth
was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered
mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and
aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as
they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
Her thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley
House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was.
She longed to know what at that moment was passing
in his mind; in what manner he thought of her, and
whether, in defiance of every thing, she was still dear to
him. Perhaps he had been civil, only because he felt
himself at ease; yet there had been {{that}} in his voice,
which was not like ease. Whether he had felt more of
pain or of pleasure in seeing her, she could not tell, but he
certainly had not seen her with composure.

At length, however, the remarks of her companions on
her absence of mind roused her, and she felt the necessity
of appearing more like herself.

They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river
for a while, ascended some of the higher grounds; whence,
in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power
to wander, were many charming views of the valley, the
opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading
many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. Gardiner
expressed a wish of going round the whole Park, but
feared it might be beyond a walk. With a triumphant
smile, they were told, that it was ten miles round. It
settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed
circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in
a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water,
in one of its narrowest parts. They crossed it by a simple
bridge, in character with the general air of the scene;
it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited;
and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room
only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough
