however, that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary
embarrassment, than any dislike of the proposal, and
seeing in her husband, who was fond of society, a perfect
willingness to accept it, she ventured to engage for her
attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on.

Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of
seeing Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say
to her, and many enquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire
friends. Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish
of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased; and on
this account, as well as some others, found herself, when
their visitors left them, capable of considering the last
half hour with some satisfaction, though while it was
passing, the enjoyment of it had been little. Eager to
be alone, and fearful of enquiries or hints from her uncle
and aunt, she staid with them only long enough to hear
their favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried
away to dress.

But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner’s
curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
It was evident that she was much better acquainted
with Mr. Darcy than they had before any idea
of; it was evident that he was very much in love with
her. They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify
enquiry.

Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think
well; and, as far as their acquaintance reached, there was
no fault to find. They could not be untouched by his
politeness, and had they drawn his character from their
own feelings, and his servant’s report, without any reference
to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to
which he was known, would not have recognised it for
Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest, however, in
believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible,
that the authority of a servant who had known him since
he was four years old, and whose own manners indicated
respectability, was not to be hastily rejected. Neither
had any thing occurred in the intelligence of their Lambton
