enquiries, which Jane was equally eager to satisfy. After
joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel
of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but
certain, and Miss Bennet could not assert to be wholly
impossible; the former continued the subject, by saying,
“But tell me all and every thing about it, which I have
not already heard. Give me farther particulars. What
did Colonel Forster say? Had they no apprehension of
any thing before the elopement took place? They must
have seen them together for ever.”

“Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected
some partiality, especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing
to give him any alarm. I am so grieved for him. His
behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. He {{was}}
coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he
had any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when
that apprehension first got abroad, it hastened his journey.”

“And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not
marry? Did he know of their intending to go off? Had
Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?”

“Yes; but when questioned by {{him}} Denny denied
knowing any thing of their plan, and would not give his
real opinion about it. He did not repeat his persuasion
of their not marrying – and from {{that}}, I am inclined to
hope, he might have been misunderstood before.”

“And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you
entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really
married?”

“How was it possible that such an idea should enter
our brains! I felt a little uneasy – a little fearful of my
sister’s happiness with him in marriage, because I knew
that his conduct had not been always quite right. My
father and mother knew nothing of that, they only felt
how imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned,
with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the
rest of us, that in Lydia’s last letter, she had prepared
her for such a step. She had known, it seems, of their
being in love with each other, many weeks.”
