out, that they had always distrusted the appearance of
his goodness. Elizabeth, though she did not credit above
half of what was said, believed enough to make her former
assurance of her sister’s ruin still more certain; and even
Jane, who believed still less of it, became almost hopeless,
more especially as the time was now come, when if they
had gone to Scotland, which she had never before entirely
despaired of, they must in all probability have gained
some news of them.

Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday,
his wife received a letter from him; it told them, that
on his arrival, he had immediately found out his brother,
and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch street. That
Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his
arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory information;
and that he was now determined to enquire at all the
principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible
they might have gone to one of them, on their first coming
to London, before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner
himself did not expect any success from this measure,
but as his brother was eager in it, he meant to assist him
in pursuing it. He added, that Mr. Bennet seemed wholly
disinclined at present, to leave London, and promised to
write again very soon. There was also a postscript to this
effect.

“I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to
find out, if possible, from some of the young man’s intimates
in the regiment, whether Wickham has any relations
or connections, who would be likely to know in what part
of the town he has now concealed himself. If there were
any one, that one could apply to, with a probability of
gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence.
At present we have nothing to guide us. Colonel
Forster will, I dare say, do every thing in his power to
satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps
Lizzy could tell us, what relations he has now living,
better than any other person.”

Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence
