would have been a blessing in comparison of this. And
it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to
suppose, as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this
licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter, has proceeded
from a faulty degree of indulgence, though, at the
same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet,
I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be
naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of such an
enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that may be,
you are grievously to be pitied, in which opinion I am not
only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by lady Catherine
and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair.
They agree with me in apprehending that this false step
in one daughter, will be injurious to the fortunes of all
the others, for who, as lady Catherine herself condescendingly
says, will connect themselves with such a family.
And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect with
augmented satisfaction on a certain event of last November,
for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved
in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you then,
my dear Sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to
throw off your unworthy child from your affection for
ever, and leave her to reap the fruits of her own heinous
offence.

“I am, dear Sir, &c. &c.”

Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received
an answer from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing
of a pleasant nature to send. It was not known that
Wickham had a single relation, with whom he kept up
any connection, and it was certain that he had no near
one living. His former acquaintance had been numerous;
but since he had been in the militia, it did not appear that
he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them.
There was no one therefore who could be pointed out, as
likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state
of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for
secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia’s
relations, for it had just transpired that he had left gaming
