took place, and all money matters were then to receive
the last finish. I believe I have now told you every
thing. It is a relation which you tell me is to give you
great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford you any
displeasure. Lydia came to us; and Wickham had
constant admission to the house. {{He}} was exactly what
he had been, when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but
I would not tell you how little I was satisfied with {{her}}
behaviour while she staid with us, if I had not perceived,
by Jane’s letter last Wednesday, that her conduct on
coming home was exactly of a piece with it, and therefore
what I now tell you, can give you no fresh pain. I talked
to her repeatedly in the most serious manner, representing to
her all the wickedness of what she had done, and all the
unhappiness she had brought on her family. If she heard
me, it was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen.
I was sometimes quite provoked, but then I recollected
my dear Elizabeth and Jane, and for their sakes had
patience with her. Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return,
and as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding. He
dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again
on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with
me, my dear Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying
(what I was never bold enough to say before) how much
I like him. His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been
as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire. His understanding
and opinions all please me; he wants nothing
but a little more liveliness, and {{that}}, if he marry {{prudently}},
his wife may teach him. I thought him very sly; – he
hardly ever mentioned your name. But slyness seems the
fashion. Pray forgive me, if I have been very presuming,
or at least do not punish me so far, as to exclude me from
P. I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round
the park. A low phaeton, with a nice little pair of ponies,
would be the very thing. But I must write no more.
The children have been wanting me this half hour. Your’s,
very sincerely,

“{{M. Gardiner.}}”
