but Elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all
must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy returned
within the stated time. Seriously, however, she felt
tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place
with that gentleman’s concurrence.

Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and
Mr. Bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed
on. The latter was much more agreeable than his companion
expected. There was nothing of presumption or
folly in Bingley, that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust
him into silence; and he was more communicative, and
less eccentric than the other had ever seen him. Bingley
of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening
Mrs. Bennet’s invention was again at work to get every
body away from him and her daughter. Elizabeth, who
had a letter to write, went into the breakfast room for
that purpose soon after tea; for as the others were all
going to sit down to cards, she could not be wanted to
counteract her mother’s schemes.

But on returning to the drawing room, when her letter
was finished, she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was
reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for
her. On opening the door, she perceived her sister and
Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in
earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion,
the faces of both as they hastily turned round, and moved
away from each other, would have told it all. {{Their}}
situation was awkward enough; but {{her’s}} she thought was
still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by either; and Elizabeth
was on the point of going away again, when Bingley,
who as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and
whispering a few words to her sister, ran out of the room.

Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where
confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing
her, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that she
was the happiest creature in the world.

“’Tis too much!” she added, “by far too much. I do
not deserve it. Oh! why is not every body as happy?”
