
“The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
From their infancy, they have been intended for each
other. It was the favourite wish of {{his}} mother, as well
as of her’s. While in their cradles, we planned the union:
and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters
would be accomplished, in their marriage, to be prevented
by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in
the world, and wholly unallied to the family! Do you
pay no regard to the wishes of his friends? To his tacit
engagement with Miss De Bourgh? Are you lost to every
feeling of propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard
me say, that from his earliest hours he was destined for
his cousin?”

“Yes, and I had heard it before. But what is that
to me? If there is no other objection to my marrying your
nephew, I shall certainly not be kept from it, by knowing
that his mother and aunt wished him to marry Miss
De Bourgh. You both did as much as you could, in planning
the marriage. Its completion depended on others.
If Mr. Darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined
to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice? And
if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?”

“Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest,
forbid it. Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect
to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act
against the inclinations of all. You will be censured,
slighted, and despised, by every one connected with him.
Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never
even be mentioned by any of us.”

“These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elizabeth.
“But the wife of Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary
sources of happiness necessarily attached to her situation,
that she could, upon the whole, have no cause to repine.”

“Obstinate, headstrong girl! I am ashamed of you!
Is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last
spring? Is nothing due to me on that score?

“Let us sit down. You are to understand, Miss Bennet,
that I came here with the determined resolution of
