intreaty and expectation of the kind. Such relief, however,
as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of
what might be called economy in her own private expences,
she frequently sent them. It had always been evident
to her that such an income as theirs, under the direction
of two persons so extravagant in their wants, and heedless
of the future, must be very insufficient to their support;
and whenever they changed their quarters, either Jane
or herself were sure of being applied to, for some little
assistance towards discharging their bills. Their manner
of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed
them to a home, was unsettled in the extreme. They were
always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap
situation, and always spending more than they ought.
His affection for her soon sunk into indifference; her’s
lasted a little longer; and in spite of her youth and her
manners, she retained all the claims to reputation which
her marriage had given her.

Though Darcy could never receive {{him}} at Pemberley,
yet, for Elizabeth’s sake, he assisted him farther in his
profession. Lydia was occasionally a visitor there, when
her husband was gone to enjoy himself in London or
Bath; and with the Bingleys they both of them frequently
staid so long, that even Bingley’s good humour was overcome,
and he proceeded so far as to {{talk}} of giving them
a hint to be gone.

Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s
marriage; but as she thought it advisable to retain the
right of visiting at Pemberley, she dropt all her resentment;
was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as
attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear
of civility to Elizabeth.

Pemberley was now Georgiana’s home; and the attachment
of the sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped
to see. They were able to love each other, even as well
as they intended. Georgiana had the highest opinion in
the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened
with an astonishment bordering on alarm, at her lively,
